My guest today is Mitchell Green, the
founder of Lead Edge Capital. When I
think about Lead Edge, I sort of think
about this giant money machine that
Mitchell and his two partners have
designed over the last 15 plus years to
make remarkably consistent investment
returns for their clients. They have all
sorts of unique aspects to the machine
that they built, whether that's their
collection of LPs, their eight-point
criteria for how they select companies,
the way they do cold calls, the way they
construct their portfolio. This is just
a totally different way of approaching
markets. They're trying to hit singles
and doubles and deliver very consistent
returns. Mitchell says it's really
important in life to be memorable.
That's just a great simple thing that
you can do. I think you'll find
listening to Mitchell today and him talk
about his entire machine and the firm
that he's built that he himself is
extremely memorable. I hope you enjoy
learning about his business.
So, the first time that I heard about
Lead Edge Capital was was the very
famous list of what companies report,
starting with cash profits, and then if
they don't have cash profits, then you
go down this very funny list. Hierarchy
of [__]
And then the bottom one is the place
that's voted the best place to work in
New York City or something. Absolutely.
Where did that list come from? Why did
you put that together? We've always
found that the best way to communicate
with, you know, our audiences, which is
entrepreneurs,
and also our invest our LPs, our clients
effectively,
is to like write a quarterly letter
about a different topic. And I started
my career cold calling companies and
that's the way we source deals, but when
you start your career talking to I think
Brian and I probably spoke to like
10,000 companies.
And if if you want to know what's a good
company, just, you know, go go speak to
call 10,000 of them. You'll figure out
really quick. It's pretty good pattern
recognition. Until like our head of PR
comms came in a few years ago, we had
actually never posted any of these
things online. We joked that we sent
this letter to some people in the VC
community, one of which was like our
buddy at Andreessen Horowitz, and they
posted it online for us.
Um we just thought I think it's like a
very simple way like in a world where
people spout off total [__] all the
time, and like you see everything in
decks, this is just like a good way to
distill it. Talk to me about the 10,000
calls. So, what did you learn calling
that many companies? You learn to be
very disciplined actually, and you learn
that most things are actually just
noise, and to figure out like what makes
a Lead Edge company, and then try to
ignore everything else. You learn a lot
about like responsiveness of people and
like more I think more responsive CEOs
tend to be better CEOs. I think another
thing you learn that's really important
for young people, if you tell an
entrepreneur that you're going to
actually do something,
then actually do it. And in a world and
I think that's actually true of like in
life. Um there are so many people that
say they'll do they do things that just
like never do them. And so if you're
known as a as a firm and a or a person
that actually does what you say you're
going to do, it goes a long way. So, if
you tell an entrepreneur, "Hey, I know
somebody at
Adobe.
Do you want an intro cuz it looks like
it'd help your business?" And he says
and then he or she says, "I'd love to."
Well, then guess what? Follow up with
that like do what you say you're going
to do. Can you describe what seems to me
like I would call it a machine that is
Lead Edge much more than most investment
firms where a lot of great investors
will tell you there's a lot of art,
there's a lot of
um you know, everything's different.
Lead Edge feels to me like unbelievably
well constructed as a machine to produce
returns.
Um I'd love you to before we go into all
the details of the ask component aspects
of the machine, describe the machine
itself at a high level before I you
know, I I was going to go on a tangent.
We run this place like it's a software
company.
Um
my background was at Bessemer Uh, like I
worked for somebody that was extremely
disciplined. and was building a cold
climate program.
My other partner at Brian worked at
Bessemer. We were the first two cold
callers. And my other partner, Neema,
worked at Insight. And I think Insight,
and I know you know, Jeff Hawn was on
recently,
it it was one of the best like software
investment or invest technology
investment machines on the planet. So,
we've like modeled ourselves on that,
you know, to build a good
investment firm that stands the test of
time. If you want to go build the next
TA Associates or General Atlantic or,
you know, Bessemer or Sequoia, you just
have to be like extremely rigorous. And
so, our number one KPI that we run this
place by is what is our gross dollar
retention for LPs. We want like 95%
gross dollar retention. Because the only
way you can get that is one, have good
investment returns
and great client services. So, how do
you, through long periods of time,
across people that will come and go,
generate like world-class returns? Is
you need to have like a process. And the
process for us starts with,
you know, 18, 22 to 24-year-olds that,
you know, talk to about 9,000 companies
a year. You get those 9,000 companies,
like, how do you figure out which ones
to work on? So, then you need this like
framework
to guide these 18 people to like, "Well,
it's going to be an interesting
company." Because in the investment
business, like we have one
asset. It's time. And it's like
precious. And so, like how do you guide
people to say no quick? And so, we built
this framework that we really took from
coming out of Bessemer. And so, like
they helped build the Bessemer five. We
took the Bessemer five, turned it into
Lead Edge eight, and it's like drives
everything we do. Now, when we find the
company, we're then super creative.
We'll buy 10%, 80% LPs out of a
20-year-old fund, buy employee
secondary, you know, fund somebody's CV.
We don't care. We'll do anything. If I
think about the two sides being the LPs
and the companies that you invest in,
I'll come back to the eight criteria.
The LP story that you have is also quite
distinct and different. Can you describe
that in a lot of detail? Sure.
Our LP base is all like world-class
execs and entrepreneurs.
Um and then we do have some big
institutions, but 95% of our capital is
like all these world-class execs and
entrepreneurs. And
we use these LPs
throughout the entire investment life
cycle. It literally starts with
sourcing. If a company won't call us
back, we'll we'll email our LPs to
Let's say it's like an automotive
software company. We'll have Rick
Wagoner, the former CEO of GM,
who's a long-time investor.
We will be like, "Will you send them
like the CEO a note?"
And if you're like an automotive
software CEO and the former CEO of
General Motors calls you, like, they're
way more likely to take an email than
like my any knucklehead email and I'm a
a 22-year-old emailing them.
Then for due diligence, we'll say, "Hey,
this is like a you're a healthcare
software company, you're 25 million in
revenue. Maybe you say like biotech or
pharmaceutical software. It's like, "Oh,
I see Pfizer's a customer. How big is
it?" 2 million bucks. Could it be
bigger? Oh, it could be 10 million.
We'll meet the former CEO.
And then I'll call up Ian Read and be
like, "Hey, Ian,
can you like talk to this company?
They'd love to talk to you. Oh, by the
way, can you like tell us what you
think? And then if it's super
interesting, could you like call could
you call Pfizer and like back channel
it?"
And then you might say to the
entrepreneur, "Hey, I don't see Biogen
as a customer. Would you want to meet
the former CEO?" So then you call up
George and you're like, "Hey, George, I
found this company. It meets seven of
our eight criteria." Then like
post-investment, we literally send
emails to our LPs. Be like, "Hey, you
know, Toast is looking for intros to
these restaurants. Do you know anybody?"
And it turns out all these people invest
in funds and never get asked for help.
That's
how we do it and how we leverage them,
but it's not actually why we did it. It
would be a lot easier to go have 20
giant institutions write you a 50 to 300
million dollar checks versus me spending
a huge amount of my time running around
the world all the time, spending time
with these people.
Because if you want 95% retention,
that's what you need to do because
they're your clients. The reason we did
it
is because I knew
that the returns in this sector, in the
tech investing sector, flow to the top
10% of funds. Like they they just do. It
is and probably it probably is the same
in real estate. It probably is the same
in industrial buyouts, but like I knew
in the venture world that it definitely
flowed to that.
And I had the pleasure of working for
one of these firms, Bessemer Venture
Partners.
So when I was starting Lead Edge,
I was like, why in God's name is anybody
going to take my money? I teach them how
to ski, but that isn't going to be very
helpful. But I said, you know what? Had
I
been
the global head of HR at Procter &
Gamble and my partner been the global
head of HR Microsoft and the other one
been the head of HR at Nike, when I
called Workday 80 times at Bessemer and
they would have definitely by the end
was like, I'll hire you as a
salesperson. I'm not taking your guys'
money. Yeah. Um if I had been like a
world-class HR exec, he would have
engaged with me because he would have
known that I could have introduced to
those companies. Like I have tons of
other HR execs. I know these people.
In a world that's super crowded and
undifferentiated and I think it's
exponentially the case more today even
than what it was 15 years ago, um
it just like differentiates us and we do
what we say we're going to do. How many
LPs do you have?
Probably like 800. 95% by number are
these executives. Yeah.
>> If you think about the level of returns
versus the consistency of returns, how
much does one matter versus the other
for the for this 95% gross retention? I
think consistency is more important.
>> On a per deal basis,
we're trying to make a two to five X in
three to seven years. That's like a 25
net IRR. If you if you just actually map
it on a curve.
Put it into a fund,
we want to generate a two to two and a
quarter X in nets
with 20 net IRRs. Some of those deals
aren't going to 5 X's, some of them
might be 0.7 X's. We try to our
downsides have been very low. We've I
think we've only lost all of our money
like in one deal ever and that's because
of the like the the kind of criteria we
look for in a company and what our
average company looks like and the fact
that very few of our companies have any
debt on them. Now,
so I try I'm trying to make a two to two
and a quarter X net
which is more like a two and a half X
gross.
However, if something is a really big
investment in the fund.
And we do not run funds with like a
hundred 150 companies in them. We have
we run funds with like 20 investments in
them. So if we've made something a 7,
10, 12, 15% position
and that goes like 8, 10, 12 X, that's
how you can 3 X net a fund. Yeah.
And so
because you rarely lose money, does that
mean you also almost never hit some like
giant grand slam?
>> Correct. Correct. We're like Cal Ripken.
Doubles doubles and triples.
Uh yeah, we're not
uh
we were not Sammy Sosa or like Mark
McGwire. It's all about um the hitting
doubles and triples. And and and if you
do that
with
very little leverage in the portfolio,
90% of our companies or 85% of our
companies are like recurring revenue. So
if you invest today and know what
revenues are in July, that's a pretty
good way to invest. 50, 60% of our
companies are like profitable
businesses.
Now you you may get it wrong. Like you
may back the wrong team, you may
overestimate the size of the market, but
I think like 70% of them are in the
pref.
So you may get your downside to 1 X. Now
sometimes you need to like go cut the
recut the deal with the entrepreneur or
the management team so you're making
slightly less than that, but if you can
avoid zeros, like
you in in turn those zeros into like 0.8
X's or 0.1 X's,
it massively helps return. We'll sell.
Like what we will sell out of probably a
third of our exits have been
secondaries. We will buy secondaries. We
will also sell. We constantly
underwrite. We've been referred to as
traders or like for like hedge fund guys
and we're like, "No, no, we're just
trying to actually make money." Because
this company's about to be a living dead
and you're going to be in this thing for
the next decade.
>> Maybe spend a minute before we go
through the correct buy criteria talking
about selling more. So, what is the
process? We have an investment
committee. There's three of us, myself,
Brian, and Amy. Then there's our
sourcing fun one.
We have a disposition committee. Same
thing. We meet We think a lot of firms
do a really, really good job
on the buy.
Very, very few firms do a very good job
on the sell. Like knowing when to sell,
pressured to sell. And we would tell I
would tell you that the private equity
funds tend to do a much better job on
the sell than most like venture growth
guys.
Um and then like hedge funds, if you do
invest public equities, they're long
only funds, like you constantly can buy
and sell. The three of us meet, you
know, once to twice a month and just
like walk through the portfolio and just
talk about it. Like, "Hey,
there's there's a round going down in
this company.
Should we sell?
Like, how can we try to position this
company for a sale over the next 12
months? The fastest way to get fired at
Lead Edge is have a company and not tell
us when there's a liquidity op-
opportunity or just like something's
about to happen before it happens. What
is the holding period end up being on
average then? I bet our average holds
are 3 and 1/2 to 4 years probably. We
took advantage Everybody gets all
excited by these
tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
returns. Like our '15 and '18 returns
look very good. But it's just multiple
expansion and we sold. That's it. Like
if if you think you're going to make a
2x in 4 years and you make a 4x in 2
years, it's amazing what it does to to
net IRR, right? People forget the
reverse happened in '20 and '21.
Nobody's '20 and '21 funds. I think the
venture growth uh ecosystem gets like a
bad rap,
but it's going to be every alternative
asset. Their '20 and '21 funds are going
to be awful relative to earlier funds
because you had, you know, people
thought they were going to make, you
know, a 4x in, you know, in in 2 years
and are instead making a 1.6x in 8
years.
And so, like, that's going to drive
that's going to have huge impact on the
industry. Most software companies try to
maximize your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back.
Using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work,
from sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your system so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals. And it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. What is the most interesting
thing about the skill of selling and
making the transaction happen? Like
presumably it's easiest to sell in
private markets when a lot of other
people are really excited about buying.
Uh you can't just hit sell like in
public markets.
>> Correct. Um
yeah, maybe in like a a bad medium good.
Like there's different kinds of outcomes
that you'd be selling into. Are most of
your sales into everyone else's excited
and you're less excited? It can be like
everything in between. Like if a company
goes public, it's just hit a two to five
X in three to seven years. And then
sell.
>> And then and then like so you're like
the company goes public, you're at like
a 3.3 X in 18 months or 24 months.
You're like that annihilates a 12% a 20%
net IRR.
It's a great company.
But we can't stand our underwriting like
what's the forward net return from here.
And we're like, well yeah, we made a we
made like a three X in 18 months. That's
like an IPO. Um
in a secondary sale, it's about
underwriting the forward IRR in Toast,
which is one of our biggest investments,
which we put like 12% of our fund three
into.
And we'd always get crap like our fund
three was like a $290 million fund.
And we put like 36 million bucks into
it. And before the IPO we had sold 180
million bucks. We think we'd make like
350 to 400 in it total. People are like,
why are you selling? You don't believe
in us? We're like, no, no, all these
other knuckleheads like that invested
alongside us, none of them put 12% of
their fund in it. And by the way,
somebody is paying us a price in the
secondary markets that we think, you
know, is just like lunacy. We sold like
in the secondary markets like like 40 or
50 bucks in Toast. The stock today is
like 30 bucks. We think it's cheap, but
it's just like by the way, we sold like
six years ago.
Um, and so it's like constantly
underwriting forward IRR. Okay, now I
get to talk about the eight buying
criteria. Uh
I don't know if you want to like tick
tick them off or give us some highlights
or
>> Give us some highlights. Uh, so there's
eight criteria.
Are you 10 million plus in revenue?
Why? Do you have like product market
fit?
Are you growing? Cuz we don't invest in
startups. Are you growing like 25% a
year?
We generate returns through growth.
Um, we don't use leverage. We have 70%
plus gross margins.
Why? Cuz at the end of the day
you trade on multiples for earnings.
Uh, revenue multiples are just like
shorthand math for like what what will
be EBITDA multiples or earnings
multiples when you uh, you know, don't
grow that fast. There's a reason that
Facebook, you know, gives away like, you
know,
electronics in the in the vending
machines and Dell charges for Cokes.
It's just like one has 80% gross margins
and one has like 15% gross margins. And
we think that just drives at the end of
the day earnings. Um, are you recurring?
It's like a heck of a lot easier to
invest knowing what revenues will be
today. So I know what they'll be in July
than they are today.
Um
Are you capital efficient? This metric
is probably kept us out of the most
trouble.
It It's like our version of return on
equity. I mean, I think it's like Warren
Buffett would think we're idiots, but
um, are your revenues today greater than
your historical cash burn?
So what do I mean by that?
Are you Are you 20 in revenue? Have you
burned 80?
Like, you know, every other tech company
cumulatively. Yeah. Have you burned 80
since inception or have you burned 10
since inception? We're looking for like
this one-to-one ratio. In a world where
capital is a commodity, if you can build
a business that's growing nicely while
burning less than your while burning
less than your revenues,
you've got a pretty good business. It
Look, we don't invest in startups. If
you invest in startups or $2 million
revenue companies, then obviously it's
harder. Are you profitable at the bottom
line? Do you have any customer
concentration? Like I just don't want to
wake up and find out 40% of my revenues
like disappeared cuz some customer
didn't decide they didn't want to work
with you.
I want to talk about the price you're
willing to pay for companies
and where this like how you would plot
yourself on the so much so much of this
sounds like a private equity strategy.
But you mentioned Toast and it's like
But Toast was Toast was 25 million of
revenue going 150% a year and it was
like we paid like 500 million bucks. It
was like 10 times revenue.
People are like that's crazy. It's like
not when it went from like
10 to 25. So we just try to build like a
forward model and you're like look
you could you could pay as high as price
as you want. You just got to be right on
your exits. You got to be right on your
multiple. You know how people got in a
bunch of trouble in 20 in 2020 and 2021
and I think how they're going to get in
trouble today and all this AI stuff
is they just assume the exit multiple is
20 to 25 times. That's insanity. Cuz
when your maximum multiple collapses out
so you can pay 20 to 25 times revenues
and if you're right
like some of our companies have been
then it's fantastic. But you can also be
wrong like some of our companies have
been and you look like an idiot. And I
think investing in OpenAI at 100 billion
is a little insane personally but like I
don't know if it goes on to do like a
a trillion dollars of earnings yeah I
was going to be very wrong. I I should
have invested. There's almost like
shorthand where
if you're like if this company grows and
doesn't de-sell much for like 18 months
am I in the money and like can I make a
good decent return for what I'm paying?
And if the answer is like oh am I even
in the money at 18 months or 20 24
months? Yeah you're paying way too high
a price.
>> So so right now there's this seismic
thing you can look at like the
Constellation and the Constellation
software's stock price or something is
like the perfect visual indicator of
what's been going on which is
>> a ski slope. this intense skepticism of
the market that like boring traditional
high gross margin software businesses
are worth like much at all. But I'm
curious how you process this moment
where I'm sure a lot of the companies
you're looking at are software companies
that
uh
have a lot of the components that make
people fearful of the similar kinds of
companies in public markets.
Our belief,
for right or wrong,
is that
the competitive advantage of software
company has never been about R&D.
We're not building semiconductor chips.
Like, we're not It's We're not building
biotech and pharma companies. This isn't
that It's To build like Chamber of
Commerce software,
you too could build this. Like, you
know, my mother couldn't, but like my
brother could, no problem. At least an
engineer. Um look at Microsoft.
Any of our companies in our portfolio,
if Microsoft took 500 people
and gave them a month,
each one of our companies could be out
of business. But, they just don't care
about the Chamber of Commerce market.
They don't care about the price
optimization market for manufacturing
companies. Um they don't care about like
the tax the tax software market for a
very specific niche product. So, like
the software companies like are really
about like distribution,
sales and marketing, customer success,
client services.
So,
we believe that it is the incumbent's
game to lose
in in software today. Um
There's a reason I'll give you a couple
examples. Workday
has like 98 or 99% gross dollar
retention. It grows like 10 and 50 10
and 15% a year. Like, oh, it only goes
10% a year.
I'm sorry, it's like 10 billion of
revenue. Um it only took like 20 years
to get there and it does like 3 billion
of free cash flow.
Exxon or a hospital system or
um Warburg Pincus or KKR or Procter &
Gamble
probably spent 3 to 5 years like
implementing the software.
If you think they're going to like start
building their own HR software, you're
out of your mind. Now, the GUI and how
you access it is going to be far
different, but actually, they already
have the customer relationships. And the
only reason they built it is because
Dave Duffield and Aneel realized 20
years ago that Oracle and SAP had really
crappy products.
But they have like thousands of
engineers that are like trying to build
the product much better and are going to
use Workday versus like Mitchell Green's
cousin like vibe coding his way
to build Workday.
At the flip side, why did Coupa get
built? And the reason that was able to
be built is SAP bought Ariba.
Like and they just like left it for
dead. So they built this like big
business.
They took it public and now it's been
sold to Toma Bravo. So what I actually I
worry about Toma Bravo or any of these
big private equity funds if they're
putting a bunch of debt on it. It's not
growing that fast anymore. If they're
putting a bunch of debt on it
and then what they do is they like oh
they like they brag. They're like oh
yeah, we can drive all our companies to
like rule of 50 businesses.
Now
do they end up cutting a bunch of people
in R&D and sales and marketing and
product that they should have that if
you were being run by an entrepreneur
with no leverage, you would have kept
and and is now I I worry that a bunch of
these private equity owned assets that
are over levered are ripe for disruption
versus like independent software
companies that are that are focused on
growth that are trying to innovate. And
I like to remind people that the um
if you look at e-commerce
everybody in '99 and 2000 everybody
thought every big box retailer was going
out of business. But if you look at the
top 50 largest e-commerce companies in
the United States, you know, yes, Amazon
is number one.
Do you know who like two through 10 are?
Walmart, Home Depot, Lowe's, Macy's,
Target. I mean, Saks is a crappy
company. Their online business is
actually pretty good. Neiman Marcus,
same thing.
A lot of the incumbents will win. Now
again,
you know, Montgomery Ward
Kmart, Sears busted were bust for either
like over levered, didn't innovate. So
like for us, that's what we're
constantly thinking about. Does that
mean that right now feels like an
especially opportune time for your style
because entry multiples are low? I think
the best risk adjusted returns right now
are in
public software names. By the way, when
you buy you know Warren Buffett says buy
when everybody you know is fearful and
and sell when like everybody's super
excited, people hate software. You know,
when we bought a bunch of our ByteDance
stock 2 years ago when everybody hated
China, I mean Alibaba's doubled off its
lows and doesn't grow and trades at 15
times earnings. If you think about the
the the CV like the very specialist type
buys that you'll do, can you explain an
an example of one of those? So, we like
to use like the house analogy. You walk
down the street, go into apartment
building and you're like, my apartment
needs to have like these six things. You
can go in the front door and you can
lead the primary round
um and put money in the balance sheet.
Or you can buy the whole business.
You can go in the side door and buy like
an early uh investor or early employee
out. But like maybe that's not
available.
So, we'll go through the basement window
with a pickaxe and buy like a
derivative. Cuz if you run a business
and this can of Pepsi owns 30% of your
business
and I go to the glass that is an
investor in the can of Pepsi's fund and
that like is they're like half the LPs
and I like literally buy that out and
you own 30% and and I buy half the fund,
I just bought 15% of your company. It's
the same thing I'm saying. It's just a
derivative. Um no, do you have as much
control? No. Do you have as much
insight? No. But like you trade off
price for access. We made a big
investment in uh in Zoom. Um
so, we couldn't go into the front door.
The company didn't need money. We sure
as heck weren't buying the entire
business.
Um there was you couldn't buy secondary.
There was secondary to buy, you couldn't
buy it cuz Sequoia would roll for you.
They're smart. They're not dumb. They're
like, why would we let these
knuckleheads in? So, like we'll take the
stock and make two or three times our
money. And the company was one that took
a long time to get funded and like
wasn't backed by Sequoia. Day one it was
backed by a bunch of random Chinese
people and Chinese funds. So, there was
sec- it was actually secondary to buy,
but you couldn't cuz they're over. So,
we're like, huh.
Why don't we go to this fund that like
has stock and their LPs have been in
this thing for 10 years. Maybe their LPs
want to sell and we can do it one of two
ways. Like we'll just buy your position
in the fund and we'll know exactly how
much we'll know exactly how much Zoom we
have through it. Or why don't we just
create like a new vehicle? Any LP that
wants to sell, we'll step into their
shoes.
Well, if you own 2% of Zoom and half the
LPs want to sell and I then step in
those shoes, I now own 1% of Zoom and if
I say to you, "Listen, we get to vote
them like we own them. Do you still hold
it?" So if you if you sell it, you know,
if the company gets an M&A offer and you
get to vote, you have to call us. Day
181 of the IPO after lockup, you got to
give us the stock. We just we just
bought the position. In a world where
LPs and GPs are desperate for liquidity,
that part of our business is absolutely
booming and that part of our business is
headed by Tim Beamer, who's one of my
operating who's one of my partners who
was actually in Notre Dame with Mom as
well.
If I think about the dollars deployed
I don't know.
Last year over the next year,
how much of it is direct capital on a
balance sheet, secondaries, something
creative like what you just described?
>> 70% is creative on our balance sheet.
70% is special sits or like secondary.
Yeah. And by the way, we will evaluate
in an IC
a public position,
a control buyout,
a minority deal,
or a special sit. Like it could be you
could get four different things in one
week and literally we just all have to
we underwrite to the same return. But
today, the opportunity is in it's only
going to we are a market draw down away
from it exploding
in in value or like exploding in stuff
to do. So,
the hard part it seems like is finding a
company that has six of the eight
criteria that you can also buy at a
multiple that you're excited about for
the forward return.
What percent of companies meet like of
the 9,000 or whatever meet like all
eight criteria?
>> By the way, no correlation. Outperforms
either. If we do like an eight criteria
deal versus like a five criteria deal,
there's like actually no correlation to
like it was a better deal. What about
you What about like four or three? We've
never looked at it cuz we um
So, what we try to do is if you say it
must meet eight criteria, 9,000
companies becomes 90. Okay. To do five
to seven deals a year, it just doesn't
work. Um
and so, for us, what we say is it just
like must meet five. That's about a 10%
yield. We're trying to get to like 900
to a a set of companies that we can then
like actually do work on. So, you have
900 companies
that meet five of our criteria.
You get to
you do work on about a due diligence on
about 150 to 175 to do five to seven
deals a year. And you're like, "Well, I
want more." I'd love to, but like
we're cold calling entrepreneurs.
They're like, "Oh, I'm sorry. I want to
sell my business tomorrow." Like, "Oh,
you just happened to call me on this
day." No, the sales cycles can be a
decade.
Um and it's about staying in touch with
entrepreneurs cuz we're not the only
ones calling them. There's great firms
like Summit or TA or Insight or you
know, Bessemer or Battery. And they're
great firms. And so, it's like, "Well,
ask the entrepreneur how do they need
help?" Try to like tease information out
of them. "Oh, you sell into like the
consumer space. You want to meet the
former CEO of Colgate-Palmolive?" Um
and you're doing that to try to like
build a relationship with somebody. So,
if five criteria companies don't
outperform eight criteria companies,
doesn't that imply the criteria aren't
predictive? So, then why have the
criteria?
>> Because you need to set a framework for
what to focus on and what not to focus
on. That's it. Like, it's just getting
to a small
>> predictive necessarily.
>> predictive, but it's getting us to a
small enough pool to like it's like
knowing your strike zone. I is like my
partner who's a big baseball fanatic, he
uses a baseball analogy. Like, Ted
Williams knew in the hitting zone
exactly where to swing and what his
probabilities were swinging the ball.
Like, yes, you can hit a ball 2 in above
home plate and it could be a grand slam
and have hit the ball the farthest
you've ever hit it. But if you do that
over an entire career, your entire
career won't be very long.
Um and so, it just enables us to know
like what pitches to swing at. Our
biggest mistakes have honestly been not
swinging at the pitches when they were
in our strike zone. And I think that's
like what we've learned over the last 15
years to get more comfortable and like
when it's in our strike zone, swing at
it. How do you train these young people
to be able to get all this information
to know whether or not it's an
eight-point score or whatever out of an
entrepreneur? Like, what is the art of
getting someone on the phone and then
actually getting them to tell you the
information that you need?
>> incredible what people will tell you on
the phone. People are like, "Listen, you
just like call people and they talk?"
People love to talk. Um,
it's investigative journalism with
sales. We tend to hire
people that are like former athletes.
But like, getting a C or a D on a test
is not your like biggest failure.
Dropping the ball at like the Rose Bowl
or like not making the Olympic team, you
that's like failure. And so, you're
looking for people that are like
insanely persistent,
people that are really inquisitive,
and and then it's just
Hey,
I'm Patrick at 10:00 a.m. your time.
We're doing work on the restaurant point
of sale system space. I read a bunch of
articles that like sounds like you're
kicking butt. Oh, by the way, I just
talked to like Square and Clover and,
you know, set up a company. We'd love to
talk to you on the phone.
And oh, by the way, I'm sure you're
getting bombarded by other people. But
by the way, we're we're different than a
lot of firms. A lot of our capital comes
from world-class exacts. Like, oh, by
the way, one of our LPs is the former
CEO of Wendy's. We'd be happy to let
talk to them if you want to meet these
people.
Huh.
Sure, love to chat. By the way, we used
to get to cold call people. Like, when
when Brian and I and Nima were doing
this, like literally cold call people
and you'd be like, you feel like the
person who calls you at 6:00 p.m., you
know, and you know, 20 years ago. And
you you like slam the phone down on.
Today, it's like, "Oh, come on. You guys
get to send emails to people. Give me a
break.
We actually tried to do it I've
encouraged some of the analysts to start
calling people. The biggest issue is
like it's hard to get people's cell
phone numbers versus like you know work
phones.
Um
and it's just like
once you get the person on the phone you
just have to show knowledge. That's
where by the way AI is incredible. It's
like you give every analyst
an associate, you give them like the
power of knowledge and you can sound
super smart. And you won't get
everything. It's like hey, I saw on
LinkedIn you have like 80 employees. So
what do you like 10 million revenue? 15
million revenue? Oh and I see like your
employee cost growing like 80% a year.
What are you growing like 150%? Yeah,
I'm not that fast. More like yeah. Oh
what like 100%? Yeah, around there. So
it's like it's like try like try to get
numbers. If you think about this
machine, so we've got this very unique
LP base. We do you know 9,000 calls,
five to seven investments per year. We
just raised our seventh fund. It was
three and a half billion. Okay. So a
three and a half billion dollar fund um
two to two and a half percent, you know,
net IRR or net net MOICs to your
investors. So that's kind of the
machine.
Where do you feel the most tempted to go
tinker on the machine for the next
decade? Like how do you hope the machine
improves? Continuing to
as the firm gets bigger
how do you build a culture
of teaching people to still be creative
and scrappy hustlers. It's the most
important thing. Like how do we get
creative and do CVs? We were doing CVs
when nobody wanted to do CVs. We didn't
know they were called CVs. We just
thought it was paying somebody a profit
share.
Um
it's like continuing to innovate on
that. What's really interesting is
the secondary markets now for some of
these names are so liquid. So actually
almost don't even have to underwrite to
this thing going public. It's like can
it just get big enough with enough
escape velocity where I can then sell
out. If you think about all the
investments you you in the last five
years or something, how often are you
like personally excited about the
company and its product? Frankly, this
is what drives me nuts about
uh a lot of people in the venture
capital ecosystem is like they think
they're actually like
like changing the world and everybody
should which they are, but they they
should tell everybody about it and
they're like doing God's greatest gift
to mankind. Like we don't think that. We
love helping entrepreneurs. Like that is
actually what gets me excited and gets
us up in the morning and I think it's
everybody up at Lead Edge is like
helping an entrepreneur try to bend the
curve and like make that customer intro
and like help find that great CFO
uh or the audit chair or whatever. We
love making customer intros. Like that's
what gets us the most excited. And I and
I think we are still actually just
scratching the surface at how we can
leverage our LP's.
>> How often do you control the business?
We are in a control position about a
third of the time. And when when that's
the case, how different is that? It
hopefully should be no different at all,
but there's less knuckleheads around the
table.
Um there's less people around the table
and what's really interesting is when
you have a lot of different people
around the table, you can have a lot of
different competing interests. And so
it's about building consensus.
Um
and you get people that are in a one
cost That's why they all there's all
these 20 and 2021's companies haven't
sold. Like there's these late stage guys
that are like, "Oh, just get me out. I
own the profit. I'll make a 1X today or
I'll make a 1X in a decade." But we
don't go into companies
and say
"We're replacing the entire management."
That's not what we do. When we invest in
a business and when we exit,
it's something like 75% of the time the
person who was running the business when
we invest is still involved in the
company. They may not be running it, but
it's like back people who just want to
build awesome businesses and great
companies and like it's like, "Listen,
if I'm not the right CEO, well, then
make me the chairman of the board or
make me the chief customer officer or
make me the chief product officer or
whatever." That um
that's what's really important. I want
>> back to the culture thing. The lead edge
culture I mean.
>> What have you learned about culture in
the many years now that you've been
doing this and especially given this is
the thing that you're you want to keep
nurturing? I didn't think I appreciated
how much culture comes from the top. Um
and so like follow-ups send handwritten
thank you notes. I've sent handwritten
thank you notes to everybody I meet,
almost everybody. I meet like every
entrepreneur, every company. Guess who
Guess who also does now? The 22-year-old
analyst. And by the way, we track it and
report on it. And you know, if you just
treat people the way you want to be
treated, that just flows. We've built a
culture of like
treat LPs like you yourself want to be
treated. People appreciate that and it
comes from the top. And like the
intellectual honesty comes from my
partner Nima. A lot of the creativity
comes from my partner Brian. Now, of
course, as you get to be an 85-90 people
at a firm, we've built like a real
training program which is a result of a
lot of work Nima and Brian and like our
our COO Suzy's done and that team and
the recruiting team. We didn't have like
I used to weekly IC meetings before like
three or four years ago. Why? Because IC
was every of us. Yeah. We talk every
day.
Um and so it's just like building
processes in place.
>> Can you talk about this crazy one-on-one
thing you do with every employee? I got
the idea from Tom Barrack at Excel KKR.
He's built a true machine at Excel KKR.
I asked him
like
what's what's like something I should
do? Like what what do you think
something you do that like really helps
the firm? He's like interview everybody
once a year.
So we sit down we we start with like a
survey.
And then you need and then you sit down
with every employee. You personally do.
I personally do. Sit down with every
other partner, every VP, every
associate, the accounting person on the
back end, every receptionist, and be
like
what do you like about your job? And so
first, give me everything you do, green,
red, yellow.
Green you love, red you hate.
And by the way, let's figure out what
you hate and why. And if there's things
you hate, well then let's figure out
other people that may be able to do them
or how can we make your job easier?
Okay, that's the first bucket. Second
bucket, if you were me running Lead
Edge, what would you change?
Three.
What's something we can do to make your
job easier?
What you learn is incredible. You get a
bunch of really good ideas every year.
It actually drives my two partners nuts
cuz sometimes I'm like, "That's amazing.
Do it." And then like they're like,
"Come on, we need to build consensus."
I'm like, "No, we don't need to build
consensus." some of these things. Is
there anything else that you do in the
culture that you feel carries that much
freight? Being like the good person is
like just not that hard, frankly. And in
a world that's insanely competitive, if
like being the nice guy gets you the
call back and being like the helpful
person,
um then then do it all day long. And
then it's
another really important thing about
running this place is that like I can't
be the bottle. I can't know every LP.
And so like if you're a 25-year-old
or 23-year-old associate here
and you have to go to Seattle next
weekend for a wedding,
then I'll pay your trip if you stay on
Monday and go meet a bunch of LPs. But
you're 23 years old. Like 99% of firms
on this planet wouldn't put 23-year-olds
in front of LPs. I'm like, "If you're
smart enough to work here, you're smart
enough to meet this LP. Like I don't
care." And people love that. The
23-year-old associates love it, which
helps us get great people,
but then also the LP loves it, too.
Because they'll be like, "Oh, my son is
your age. Like Would you Would you I
Would you mind like talking to him?" Or
"Hey, you went to Notre Dame. Oh, my
son's like la- plays lacrosse and he's
like thinking of going there. Would you
talk to him?" And he'll be like, "Oh,
well actually, no, talk to my partner
Tim cuz he like played Notre Dame
lacrosse." You just build really real
relationships with people. If you think
about the average month for you and the
major slices of the pie are time with
LPs, time with companies, I'm so
curious. It's actually kind of hard to
guess
what
maybe there's different buckets than
those three, LPs, companies, Internal.
Well, that's right. Yeah, right. What
what does yours look like? Um and mine's
by the way very different than Brian
anyway. And this is by design. And it I
mean it ebbs and flows a little bit with
fundraising obviously.
I probably spend
60% of my time with LPs. Wow. Now again,
that could be getting somebody to help a
company though too. Or coordinating with
the team
um of people with us like, "Hey, let's
figure out a way to get into Exxon." And
then I would say a third of my 25 30% of
my time is investing related, which
could be reading memos, helping people
win deals. That's frankly how I want to
help. Like I'm like if we lose a deal
cuz I didn't meet the company, like I
might say that I can help us win, but
like we got to at least put our best
forward. And then probably
15 20% is operational. The operational
stuff's coming down
um
because
uh
we hired one of our partners, Suzy, who
lives in Greenwich, um used to be an
investment partner. A few years ago she
became our COO. So, that's like my time.
Nima probably spends 90% of his time
investing, 10% of his time on everything
else, which is what you should do.
Uh and kind of like running the IC.
Our partner Brian probably spends
60% of his time investing.
And
probably
2020 on LPs and operations. And it's And
it's like each of the three of us, if
you were to meet the three of us,
it would be very It's very clear to
people that spend time with Brian, Nima,
and I that we like play to our
strengths.
>> and weaknesses. You mentioned Tom
Barrons as someone that you've learned
from.
>> Yeah. If you had to like create a
Rushmore of like other investment
machines that you most respect, who is
the Rushmore? Insight.
TA.
And probably Excel KKR. I think Devin,
Jeff, Triplet, the guy uh Lieberman at
Insight have just built like a factory.
It's like It's You know how you know
what a good software company is? Just
talk to like They probably talk to
30,000 companies a year.
It's just It's like an absolute factory.
And you're trying to like it's process.
And so I think they're like amazing at
it. TA is one that like pioneered cold
calling.
Um
and you know, Insight is obviously saved
two to itself like, you know,
in 2001 they
I would guess Insight's growth rate in
their portfolio would have been 2001 and
like today is actually pretty similar.
TA's is definitely come down. They're
more private equity like. It's just
discipline and process. Like I I think I
get the sense that TA is very good at
selling.
>> do.
Um and then Excel Excel here has built
like an incredible value creation team
that I think actually adds a lot of I
think there's a lot of like talk about
value creation they don't do much, but I
get the sense that these guys are
like very good at
actually helping companies and trying to
bend the needle.
As your business scales up everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing,
differentiated products knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse adding more
complexity, more head count, and more
risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward. One unified platform that
automates away the complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, trading, compliance, and more
all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management
helping ambitious firms scale faster,
operate smarter, and stay ahead of the
curve. See what Ridgeline can unlock for
your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai.
What have we missed about what makes the
machine tick that you think is
really important? I would have said that
the three of us who run the machine are
all very, very different and we play to
our strengths.
And I don't and I don't think that
should be like underestimated. Um and I
think that's what makes the machine like
we literally negotiate carry economics
for the three of us in like 10 minutes.
Like we and there's firms you hear about
that like get into month-long fights
like two-month-long fights over carry.
We all highly respect each other and
like know what we're each really good
at.
I think that's the most I think that's
honest. And like just a focus on
intellectual honesty that I think a lot
of firms just don't have. Like if you go
to our investment committee some of our
investment committee meetings especially
outside we our investment committee is
the three of us. But then we like
everybody that's basically VP enough
gets to come. But if you sit in the room
and and listen to Brian and Eemaan I
talk about a deal, you would think the
three of us hate each other. Or you
might think we're Israeli.
Because they it's like just like a joke
and talk about it. If you listen to like
Israeli board from the outside you're
like these people all hate each other.
Like how do they work? No, no, that's
that's just how they talk. Like
and then like right after we have the IC
we're like the buddies. And it's like
no, it's like let's debate the merits of
this deal. Can you riff a little bit
more on just all the ways that you're
excited and fearful about AI both in the
investment process at Lead Edge, for
running Lead Edge the business, and for
the companies that you invest in?
>> Yeah. I'm the most fearful for what I
don't know. And just like
AI is going to change the world and it's
going to do it in ways that nobody can
think about just like the internet did.
I mean in 2009, 1999, 2000 when we sat
here, we wouldn't have mentioned social
media. I mean it's today it's $3
trillion of value. I'm the most like
fearful when it comes to companies
and processes for that. It's like what
don't we know? Like what is this like
what are we missing?
Um
What am I the most excited about for us?
Like AI in the long term will create the
biggest productivity gain of the last,
you know, 75-100 years. Don't know if
it'll be like electricity, but like
it'll be pretty damn close. That's
really exciting. Like people like it's
not going to be like like don't people
get too excited about oh, we're going to
go like build the next piece of workday
or we're going to go build like better
call center software. Like this stuff is
going to you're going to see industries
that we're not even thinking about how
to
even thinking about what's going to like
be possible is going to happen. That's
like really exciting. It's going to be
the age of entrepreneurism and like
people are going to build a build
awesome businesses. What I worry about
whether it's internally at Lead Edge or
outside at our portfolio companies is do
we have the right people in place so
that we don't get disrupted? And like
cuz like it's you constantly want to you
want to like I I joke you want to hire a
bunch of young people. And these young
people people worry about young people
aren't going to find jobs. It's like no,
young people are the ones going to
figure out AI more than the 60-year-old
or 55-year-old. And so it's
do we I actually rank all of we take all
of our portfolio companies
and we're saying like okay
like what's your like AI readiness
score? And then it's okay, this
company's like really high. This
company's pretty low.
Huh, we should like connect those
entrepreneurs together to figure out
what they're doing. What goes into that
score? What's your data look like? Is it
structured in a way that you're going to
be able to leverage AI?
Are you iterating? Like how many new AI
products have you come out with? What's
your AI revenues on new products? You
know, have how much more product
releases are you able to release? It's
not did your engineering comp stay flat
or go down? We have to I for one
strongly believe that if you think in
2020, if your budget in 2024 for 2026
was to have 150 software engineers, you
should still have 150 software engineers
because those software engineers can be
like exponentially more productive and
they can then create more products that
your sales team can then go sell. Who do
you compete with?
>> We would bid against Insight, FTV, JMI,
Battery, Bessemer's Lightspeed when they
do Lightspeed when they do like
bootstrapped-ish type stuff.
Okay, but sometimes we compete against
Meritech and IVP and like but wait, you
can buy like rocket ship companies in
Silicon Valley are freaking awesome.
Like I was not going to pay 100 times
revenue for them.
Uh that's the that's the problem right
now. There's like too much money. Matt
Cohler said it best. It's like they
backed these giant internet companies
when distribution was loose and capital
was tight. It's like the reverse
happened. So like capital's everywhere,
but like four companies control
distribution. So like good luck going to
build a giant internet company. Um
and right now there's just like too much
money chasing, you know, at least in
Silicon Valley two few two few great
times. So expand on that. Like like
decompose and expand on that a little
bit and so I guess the question is like
your view on the state of markets and
technology markets in general.
Overhyped, overfrothed,
um
and I believe this AI CapEx bubble will
end badly.
Uh in a way I just think people are it's
like the telecom bubble all over again.
And
it will be it will be very interesting
if Apple may have been maybe look like
the really smart one at all this at the
end of the day. Uh we've seen them but
they're I think people are just going to
overspend. I think I'm convinced that
people investing in all these AI
companies, all these VCs like have to
portray the view that software is die is
going to be dead because they have to
justify how much money they're going to
spend. Like if you if you start to run
these assumptions on like how much money
is going into these companies and what
that means for how much earnings you
have to drive and what that means for
like how much power you need to
generate. Like it just doesn't work.
Where are the nuclear power plants
coming up and like this doesn't work. Um
but that presents the opportunity.
That's when you're going to buy it.
That's when you're going to buy these
companies. The counter argument would be
in telecom, you know, it was all dark
fiber and AI it's all burning GPUs.
And yes, the CapEx is crazy, but we it's
still like we everything still feels
mega under supplied. And I'm just
curious how you think about Yeah, when
the opportunities will present itself
for an investor like you.
>> think um
Look, our fundamental my fundamental
belief
is that the models will commoditize.
And
that companies like Google have a
Facebook and Amazon and Apple have a
competitive cost advantage. Amazon
companies like Amazon and Microsoft and
Google have more data to train a model
than than these new model companies will
ever have. If and then oh by the way,
if you are all these like Chinese models
or European models, a bunch of these
things cost a fraction of the cost to
run. And so like and you can run them
locally. And especially if your
country's companies outside the US. Like
why would you pay that amount for open
AI tokens or Anthropic tokens when you
can just run Deep Seek or one of these
other 10 models. And so like I I think
we worry the most about model
commoditization. I have no clue when
this will like stop. It will probably go
longer than people think. In 99 and 2000
people also thought we were in a bubble.
They also think people think we're in a
bubble now and it will just like stop.
Is it one of these monster IPOs
happening that um
you know, and then it just doesn't go
like people think it does. You know, I I
think this Anthropic round was kind of
like an IPO. We're trying to hit doubles
and triples. A lot of these companies we
struggle with like do they're going to
be 200 X's or 100 X's or zeros. Like
it's just that that's a struggle that's
a struggle for us. What kind of company
in the AI like center of the heat map, I
know you're probably not investing in
any of them but cuz of the multiples or
whatever, what kinds of companies are
the most interesting to you?
>> I think it's like fascinating some of
the stuff that's being done in
infrastructure software. Like um and
actually that like agents appear to
consume more resources than actually
people. And so like the some of these
consumption-based models like the growth
of companies like by dumb luck we were
very early investors in ClickHouse.
Um which is a database company. We were
early investors in Grafana Labs
infrastructure company that competes
with like Data Dog. Data Dog's growing
like 29 high 20s 30% a year at scale. Um
like it's still these types of companies
that I think we find super interesting.
I I find them fascinating. It's I really
struggle with evaluations but like the
the growth rates are like we've never
seen with very good economics. You see
how much money a company like Click
House has raised like what they've
burned is like
nothing like
very little compared to what you might
otherwise think. What do you think is
the most surprising thing about you?
Like like you have a good sense of you
from how you operate persistence
enthusiasm energy
process.
What do you think if I spent 10 hours
with you I would be most surprised
about?
How like
So probably how driven I am and how much
I like truly love what I do and like I
just put my like heart and soul into
everything I do whether it's like racing
cars which I race cars competitively. I
was a national ranked ski racer or how I
run Lead Edge like I probably sleep like
5 hours a night 4 hours a night. It's
cuz I love what I do. I absolutely like
just I'm insanely competitive and and I
think that if you spent 10 hours you'd
be like oh my god this guy is the most
persistent competitive person we've ever
I've ever met. Were you born that way?
Yeah I think I was born that way. Was it
enhanced through formative early
experience?
>> Ski racing
ski racing skiing growing up as a kid
ski racing 100%. Can you make that
tangible for us like what was it like?
Process like do these things and you'll
get better do these things on video on a
GS course and constantly analyze video
and do these things the next run and
change this and like you fell get up and
go do it 10 more times. I grew up on a
ski hill that was 500 ft. I mean Lindsey
Vonn is one of the best skiers in the
world she grew up skiing on 500 ft Buck
Hill in Minnesota and doing laps like
from 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. at night
like just repetitive. Like Mikaela
Shiffrin who's one of the best female
skiers in the world like the use it as
her time on snow
is like limited. So like when you get
off the chairlift like constantly like
everything is a drill like do just
constantly be trying to improve. I think
that's Lead Edge and and like what you
would find in me is like constantly
trying to improve. I what would surprise
me the most actually if you had to say
like, "Huh, you started the firm 15 20
years ago." Like, I think
I've been able to recruit
and maintain
and motivate and build a really good
team. I've been very good to pick really
good partners and that treat other
people really well and that like, you
know, feeds on itself. Is there anything
else from skiing, I'm not a skier, that
you find visceral and helpful
as an analogy for how to do things
elsewhere other than reps and practice?
When I asked the guy, Scott Booth, who
ran Eastern, I asked him why he hired
me.
He said to me, and this was early '08,
he said to me,
"Because when things get scary, you're
going to want to buy." And I didn't know
what he meant.
Cuz he's like, you go down a hill at 80
miles an hour. Like, this isn't scary.
Like, this is like nothing. You're like,
you can make a decision of going down
the hill at 80 miles an hour and like
what to do and what not to do and how
not to fall and fall whatever.
When the fall of '08 happened, I was
like, "This isn't scary. What's buy?"
And like, it's eventually going to go
up. We ski racing
helped me really understand like a very
fine line and risk adjusted and like
risk return behavior. I just think like
being an athlete,
whether you play basketball, whether you
play hockey, whether you play golf, like
I think athletes just have a work ethic
and can under and like if you're trying
to find it in young people and like have
a drive, like
there are athletes
that have incredible athleticism,
but also have incredible work ethic like
Michael Jordan. Those are the best of
the best.
Then you have people
like Steve Kerr
who are like not very good athletically,
but had a work ethic of Michael Jordan.
Like,
they can be good. But then you have
wasted talent, which is like Dennis
Rodman's of the world where like they
were amazing athletes, but they like
didn't have a drive. And I think the
same can apply to investing. Why did you
choose to start the firm because you
were quite young when you did it?
And what how how could you translate
that experience into advice for someone
listening that is thinking about
starting a fund to decide whether or not
they should do it?
>> Just go do it. If you want to be an
entrepreneur I I can't My partner Brian
is like the reason you started a firm is
because nobody was going to like hire
your ass. I've always wanted to be an
entrepreneur and be like really really
successful. It's always driven me. And
like I always wanted to be like, you
know, just just solely focused on it.
And
you know, like if you wanted to generate
generational wealth or build something,
like you need to be an entrepreneur.
Like yes, if we build Blackstone,
everybody who's here will make an insane
amount of money because it was 90
people. One of my partners Zach is very
young. He I mean, he's like 30 years
old. He's a partner. Because he joined
here and he took a bet when the firm was
tiny. I just encourage people, if you
want to do it like your own way,
there's no better time than now. Like
what are you waiting for? Like I
actually think it's easier to leave when
you're 27, 25,
30, than when you're 45 and have three
kids. I I had nothing to lose. If it
failed, like I was going to just
go work I guess I guess I'd work for
somebody. What Once you made lots of
money, do you still care? 100%. Why?
>> Keep score every day.
Because it's score? It's a score because
like I want to win. Like Like I
you know, some of like people like Ken
Griffin and Steve Cohen are like
mentors, LPs of ours.
Like those those guys have built like
it's incredible how hard those people
work. Like now again, maybe these are
NF2 people, but like or if you look at
some of these like tech entrepreneurs,
that are like an Elon Musk or Alex Karp
from Palantir or Matt Prince from, you
know, Cloudflare or like George Kurtz
from CrowdStrike. Like these people are
incredibly driven, like hard working
people that like live and breathe what
they do. And so yeah, I mean, people
keep score.
But But you have But I have like it's
not work for me. This is fun. I travel
constantly.
And like to meet companies, to meet LPs,
to meet entrepreneurs, to like meet
bankers. And like people are like, "Your
schedule like Tell people my schedule
and they like cry. I'm like, "No, it's
not It's not work. It's fun." It's
pretty amazing what you've built. Uh
very unique model, incredibly fun. I
love when you are to just walk us
through it all. I had so much fun doing
this. When I do these interviews, I ask
everyone the same closing question.
What's the kindest thing that anyone's
ever done for you?
Pete Willmott.
He's passed away. Was the former
um CEO of FedEx. And he was a Williams
alum. I started a company in college,
and he was like the first person that
ever believed in me. I was like 18, 19
years old. And he became an investor
with us. And the company completely
failed. And he probably, when I was
trying to get my first jobs, and when he
got my job at Bessemer, he was my
reference. And he basically told the
person they were insane if they didn't
hire me, cuz I was the most persistent
person he ever met. I learned so much
today about building something unique.
Thanks so much for your time.
>> Cool. Thanks so much. Have me on.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm. OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic,
Perplexity, and Vercel all have
something in common. They all use
WorkOS. And here's why. To achieve
enterprise adoption at scale, you have
to deliver on core capabilities like
SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's
where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo, because Rogo AI's platform
is not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your system, so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do, auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals, and it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.